# Female political leadership during COVID-19 
## United States of America female governors' response to the COVID-19 pandemic 
### Seminar paper submitted as part of the requirements for Gender and Politics (12051)

**Paper will be uploaded after graded and aproved**

The 2020 year has been dominated by COVID-19, a pandemic with horrific effects. The pandemic has caused many deaths, tore apart families, the collapse of travel-based sectors, financial depression, loss of jobs, and other terrible outcomes. Countries have attempted to limit the pandemic with a variety of measures and public policies. Among them are complete state shutdowns, curfews, travel limits, mandating mask-wearing, and more. These have varying success in different countries  (Courtemanche, Garuccio, Le, Pinkston, & Yelowitz, 2020). <br>
In the post months, multiple journalists have pointed out that among the most successful countries in dealing with the pandemic are female leaders. Notability successful female leaders include the prime minister of New Zealand, Jacinda Ardern; President of Taiwan, Tsai Ing-wen; and Chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel. The reason for this could be that women's leadership is based on inclusiveness, empathy, and science-based decision-making (Fox & Oxley, 2003; Tamres, Janicki, & Helgeson, 2002; Toussaint & Webb, 2005; Zenger & Folkman, 2020). At the same time, others suggested that a female leader is a "signal" on the country's political system. They signify a diverse perspective system, coalition building and willingness to find common ground, and data-driven evidence  (Amanda, 2020). **This research will examine the role of gender in explaining US governors' COVID-19 crisis management.** <br>
This research will start by reviewing briefly the COVID-19 pandemic worldwide, measures used by different countries to minimize the spread of the disease, and the same review just focused on the United States. The following section will review previous research and the different elements at the heart of the research question, including governors' power in the United States, goners during the COVID-19, female leadership, female governors, and female leadership during the pandemic. This section will conclude with the hypothesis for this research, based on the review of previous work.  
The final section includes the empirical aspect of this research. Starting with the challenges faced and methods used to respond to the challenges. Then a review of the multiple data sources used, including the coding process, is presented. Multiple OLS regressions are displayed and analyzed based on the hypothesis from the previous section.
